---
title: ONE| Raw Ambition (spoilers)
date: "git Created"
---
Over the past few months, I have been slowly reading [ONE ~Kagayaku Kisetsu e~](https://vndb.org/v51). I had previously read Kanon (blog soon), but I wanted to go back and see what had previously been done by the early Key team back when they worked at Tactics. What I found was decidedly mixed - on the one hand, the story is quite ambitious and arguably created the nakige format that would define Key's future works, but on the other hand, it suffers from inconsistent writing and an underwhelimg atmosphere.

ONE at the surface is your standard slice of life VN - you play as Orihara Kouhei, going about your high school days talking to girls. His parents died a while ago, so he lives with his aunt. The complexity comes in the concept of the "eternal world", which is this alternative place that isn't really explained well that Kouhei travels to sometimes when he sleeps. The crux of the story revolves around Kouhei talking to a mysterious girl in these scenes, which later on turns out to be his sister, and after she got sick and died when he was young, he started visiting the eternal world and talking with her. If this sounds familiar, it's because the themes aren't too different from Kanon - in effect that game can be seen as a different interpretation of the same base ideas. However, while in Kanon the subplot is restricted to only being seen when you advance through Ayu's route, in ONE you will see it every single time you get near the end of a route, and after the first time there's really no point in reading it since it dosen't change, which means you'll end up holding down CTRL for a bit. In any case, this ties into the main game as near the end of each character's route, Kouhei realises that people are forgetting about him, which eventually leads to only the girl you've been talking to remembering him, and he "vanishes" for a while and comes back. Again, it's not exactly clear how this works, but that was probably intentional. Apparently it was explained further in [ONE 2 ~Eien no Yakusoku~](https://vndb.org/v670), but this was developed by a completely different team at NEXTON years later and it is hard to say if this refects the ideas of the original team.

As for the routes themselves, they 