---
title: The Steam Deck is the VN Machine
date: Created
---
I've been trying to read more - not that I don't read words ever day online, but actually reading a novel. Sometimes I go to the library to read, but usually I stick to an e reader because it's so much more convienent. A while back I got a Likebook Mars back when those were still made - it served me well, and when that broke last year I got a Boox Tab Mini C to replace it. Now I love that little tablet - it's great for reading written books as well as comics, and the pen helped me take a lot more notes than usual when I was still in college. There's a problem when it comes to reading visual/sound novels, however - they are largely computer games (PC-98 and x86 Windows). It's clear as day they won't run on my ARM Android e reader, and while there are a decent amount of Android ports, they are either quite old and not translated, or they are missing features, not to mention all the novels that don't have Android ports. So the question is - what DO you read them on? I used to read them on my laptop, but that's hardly the best experience, and since my laptop is a Mac I was limited in what I could read. Therefore, I have two machines that I use for reading Visual Novels, and one of them is a refurbished Steam Deck I got a few months back. This might be strange to say, but I have hardly any machines in my house running Windows 10/11 - I have a lot of issues with modern Windows, even more so than older versions, so for a while after I moved from my old desktop to my MacBook and now also my Mac Mini, I didn't have any machines to play normal PC games on. Having a Steam Deck is great for that since it's strong enough to run older games at 1440p 120hz when docked, and the fact that it uses Linux (with my favorite KDE no less) makes it great to use in a pinch. But the real magic is that it's amazing for running VNs. Since most of them are relatively simple in terms of specs, you can crank down the power limit to 5 watts and it barely makes any sound, and having it handheld means I can read before bed or in my rocking chair. If you really want to start reading a lot of VNs without being tethered to your desk, there's really nothing better than a used or refurbished Steam Deck.